Since I m a first graduate student, I do not have data to use in this R course. From this course I would like to learn how to run basic population genetics analyses in R. One probelm we have in population genetics programs is that only certain programs can find certain values and you will find yourself looking for several different programs. With that being said, my goal in R is to be able to run any population genetics test. The aim of my project is to provide a tutorial for how to run basic population genetics analyses. 

For this project I plan on using genotypic data from Stuart McDaniel's previous study on a gene deletion. One of my easy goals is to see if a population deviates from Hardy Weinberg equllibrium and why. I will take the observed genotypic data and convert it to allelic frequencies (which I currently cannot find in the population genetics package but I believe they refer to this as allelic variants). I will then take the allelic frequencies and using expectedGenotypes I will construct the expected genotypes. I believe I will also have to create a genotype object to accound for which genotype is observed for which individual. Once I have the expected number of each genotype and the observed number of each genotype, I will use  HWE.ext to test for Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and then I will use HWE.chisq to see if my population deviates from Hardy Weinberg equillibrium. From this I should be able to see if there is an excess of heterozygotes (which I already know there is in the data I will use).

Another skill that I would like to learn is how to manimpulate data files. For instance, I would like to be able to take a large data file and mine for certain varaibles. I also would like to learn how to use the cluster and even more specfiically how to run R in the cluster. Learning how to mine through data files and use the R in the Cluster will constitute my medium goal. 

Lastly, for my challenging goal I would like to determine tajima's D from nucleotide sequence data (which I can also get from Stuart). Tajima's D is used to distinguish between DNA sequences evovling randomly (neutrally) and sequences that evolve under non-random process (balancing selection, directional selection, demographic expansion or contraction, genetic hitchhiking or introgression). I am also considering looking into learning how to use the Cluster anaylsis package to see how related a chimeric gene is to the two genes it fused from (still deciding if this is possible).
